# July 6, 2021

## Attendees

* Fission ( Jeff, Boris, Brooke, James )
* Discordian ( PL )
* Dietrich ( PL )
* CAKE ( Jimmy Lee )
* Ignacio Hagopia ( Textile )
* Michael Burns ( PL )
* Matt Ober ( Pinata )
* Mahendra Hirani ( 3box / Ceramic )
* Sid Sanyal
* Igor - ( gateway.fm )
* Sara Feenan ( Infura )
* Val ( 3box / Ceramic ) 
* Mohsin Zaidi ( 3box / Ceramic )
* Gregory Touretsky - Seagate - 
* Thibault Meunier - Cloudflare

# Agenda

1. Introductions
2. meta: next meeting: IPFS cluster chat, July 13 ( [https://lu.ma/d9rz4tnf](https://lu.ma/d9rz4tnf) ) 
3. meta: next regular meeting and meeting cadence?
4. meta: confirm / suggest alternatives for tracking meeting notes. Is [this repo](https://github.com/IPFS-Operators-Group/meetings/) good enough for now?
5. discussion: challenges operating ipfs nodes at scale
6. discussion: challenges with DMCA
7. discussion: ?
8. Wrap-up: call for volunteers

# Notes

* Cadence - monthly
* chat - invite-only slack channel on the filecoin slack
 
Discussion - go-ipfs

Brooke: 
- running go-ipfs nodes on AWS with the s3 plugin
- websockets from the browser
- single s3 store
- no pin lists or garbage collection
- will pull in from the nodes until one finishes
- used to run ipfs-cluster, failed badly one day, hacked something together afterwards

james:
 - who is running the s3 plugin?

Boris:
 - we will share OSS tooling and infra diagrams

Val
 - sounds familiar
 - recently published terraform module
 - using s3

JW: do you share blocks?

Val: so far not. Mostly connectivity issues. Running behind a load balancer, heavily rely on pub/sub, seeing connectivity issues

Boris:
 - compiling s3 plugin is work

Val:
 - running js-ipfs, no compile step, deps management

Ignacio:

 - considered running shared block stores or remote ones. Unsure about how pinning plays with shared blockstore - is safe?

 - new project - running IPFS-cluster
 - been discussing with hector, tested with leveldb, solved garbage collection issues
 - doesn't seem to be safe to add data and run GC concurrently
 - might lose data prior to pinning
 - correct operations to solve these problems?
 - doesn't want to solve in the application layer, feels like re-inventing the wheel.


Matt:

- we ended up implementing ipfs-cluster work around to solve GC issues
- don't use the s3 repo - how is that working?
- experimenting with it, want to make sure it can solve their issues
- one block store / multiple nodes? would liek to discuss more.

Boris:

 - talked to Amazon about native s3 support, bt support had been recently turned off

Matt: anyone running s3 outside of AWS?

Gregory: they're running s3 plugin outside of AWS

Gregory: anyone on-prem?

JW: Raspberry PI

Michael Burns: Baremetal in the cloud.

Boris: working on cli work to run own nodes

Brooke: 

- using autoscaling? 
- running their own bootstrap nodes?
- getting cloud native scaling
- would like something like hydra booster - single store, multiple heads, on one node
- nothing currently


Boris: go-ipfs is not meant to be run in data centers

Michael:

 - logging, configuration, suited for a prototype but not built for eg k8s
 - glaring: config file has both sensitive data and generic data.
 - can't do env vs cli vs config


Thibault

 - not using ipfs client, using it as a library
 - not using s3, using custom datastore
 - lots of features added - peering to keep connection with the nodes
 - trying to reduce custom config.

 - lots of work to modify how config happens
 - needs to update public github repo
 - custom go project, import go-ipfs library
 - just serving, no storage
 - custom GC



Val

 - connectivity between nodes
 - swarm connecting every hour
 - pub-sub messages every minute


Discordian

 - chat demo - has to send keepalive messages to keep connections alive


Brooke

 - cloud nodes reconnect every hour
 - before requests, full connect


Matt:
 - have you looked at the peering config?
 - have both running, overkill


Val:
 - DHT off, swarm connections are still not staying alive
 - don't understand gossip well enough to understand connection drops.


JW: 
 - matt are you using private networks


Matt: no, we could do it, nobody has asked that

JW: want our stuff to be online, looing at a hybrid
 - private stuff for our customers
 - also other unrelated nods that can broadcast


Matt: "dedicated networks" - shared key. "sharding?"

JW: static file hosting over http

Matt: remembers a project that does public / private

Our Trade? "RTrade"! - probably closed source

Boris: 

 - DMCA?

Thibault - custom code to do DMCA

Michael: nginx and lua script
 - open resty - distribution - lua automate all the things
 - open code on how to do this
 - for every request:
   - find CID
     - check against deny list

Deny list: json that has CIDs etc that is hashed. List isn't served in plain text

 - now automated mostly!

Boris: has domain badhashlist.com let's think about how to use that.

Volunteers:
Michael, Sid

Next regular meeting: 

* Michael's fierce DMCA nginx demo!!


### Raw Zoom Chat

```
11:10:15 From CAKE (Jimmy Lee) to Everyone : I’m also PL
11:10:39 From Discordian  to Everyone : Ah I thought it was Jimmy Lee Inc.
11:11:12 From CAKE (Jimmy Lee) to Everyone : lol
11:13:27 From James Walker (walkah) to Everyone : Happy to learn I’m not the only newbie here 🎉
11:14:11 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : we’ve got Sid and Thibault
11:16:45 From Igor to Everyone : I’m also on a hotel WiFi with quite meh quality. Will there be a recording?
11:18:23 From Discordian  to Everyone : Dietrich: Inv me ;) <3
11:18:45 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : 👍🏼
11:18:46 From Sara Feenan to Everyone : Would love an invite, cheers
11:18:47 From Thibault Meunier to Everyone : not in there yet :wave:
11:18:52 From Val to Everyone : val@3box.io <- would love to be added
11:18:53 From Gregory Touretsky to Everyone : pls invite me
11:19:08 From Gregory Touretsky to Everyone : gregory.touretsky@gmail.com
11:19:23 From Sara Feenan to Everyone : Sara.feenan@consensys.net
11:19:39 From Boris Mann to Everyone : https://filecoin.io/slack for sign up
11:19:44 From Mahendra Hirani to Everyone : pls invite me mahendra@3box.io
11:19:58 From Boris Mann to Everyone : And then ping Dietrich or JeffG or me to get added to group — we’ll also follow up with all these links
11:22:40 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : ^ what Boris said - step #1 is join that Slack
11:23:32 From Thibault Meunier to Everyone : to confirm, is the S3 plugin the s3 datastore? https://github.com/ipfs/go-ds-s3
11:23:43 From James Walker (walkah) to Everyone : Yep!
11:25:58 From Igor to Everyone : Sorry, WiFi is getting really bad, will drop. Will join the repo and look for meeting notes
11:26:31 From Carson Farmer to Everyone : Heyo gang. Sorry I’m late. Pre-School pickup!
11:26:45 From Discordian  to Everyone : Welcome!
11:27:01 From Carson Farmer to Everyone : Thanks
11:27:07 From CAKE (Jimmy Lee) to Everyone : Welcome
11:27:09 From Gregory Touretsky to Everyone : Could someone share link to the repo?
11:27:21 From James Walker (walkah) to Everyone : https://github.com/IPFS-Operators-Group/meetings <— meeting notes repo
11:31:55 From Sara Feenan to Everyone : Sorry folks - have to drop off for another call. Great to meet you all and look forward to the next one!
11:31:56 From Carson Farmer to Everyone : I’m keeping quiet for now, because I’m late, and also really just here to support Ignacio!
11:32:57 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : ook added most folks who raised hands to the channel on Slack - dm me once you join FIlecoin Slack and i’ll add you!
11:33:00 From Boris Mann to Jeff Griffiths(Direct Message) : Their own cluster solution, not ipfs-cluster
11:33:19 From Carson Farmer to Everyone : 🙏
11:37:37 From Val to Everyone : If you count my avado node?
11:37:47 From James Walker (walkah) to Everyone : It’s all fair game in my book
11:38:34 From Gregory Touretsky to Everyone : https://github.com/Seagate/cortx/blob/main/doc/integrations/ipfs.md
11:40:56 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : heard
11:41:25 From CAKE (Jimmy Lee) to Everyone : Fire more shots
11:41:48 From Boris Mann to Everyone : My six guns are loaded
11:41:49 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : Cake doesn’t Estuary tackle the gc problem
11:42:30 From CAKE (Jimmy Lee) to Everyone : Yeah (I think) but we want to get to a TiB a day before we get all confident
11:44:08 From James Walker (walkah) to Everyone : “Nix is a hip thing” <- I think we’ve successfully infected Jeff
11:44:25 From Brooklyn Zelenka to Everyone : 😁
11:45:42 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : iirc we did some grants a ways back for ipfs support in nix w/ Obsidian Systems
11:45:49 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : /me looks...
11:46:02 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : https://blog.ipfs.io/2020-09-08-nix-ipfs-milestone-1/
11:48:47 From Boris Mann to Everyone : Yeah, folks keep the Nix package updated pretty well
11:49:28 From Boris Mann to Everyone : Here’s our nix / terraform thing https://github.com/fission-suite/ipfs-cluster-aws
11:49:47 From Discordian  to Everyone : I should clarify, I'm talking js-ipfs, but exact same issue
11:51:28 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : wow, quoting that
11:53:11 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : RTrade
11:53:32 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : they shut everything down w/ no notice, and dm’d me that they pivoted to cryptomining
11:53:45 From Carson Farmer to Everyone : doh!
11:53:50 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : they were bare metal, in Vanvcouver BC actually
11:54:01 From James Walker (walkah) to Everyone : 🤦‍♂️
11:54:19 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : yeah they left some customers hanging, not cool.
11:56:57 From Carson Farmer to Everyone : nice
11:57:15 From Carson Farmer to Everyone : Glad to hear you guys are thinking seriously about this!
11:57:42 From Carson Farmer to Everyone : Yes please
11:57:50 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : mburns gets huge props for making our lives livable in this area. went from super manual to pretty smooth.
11:58:24 From Discordian  to Everyone : +1, very excited to help get people onboarded with the process too
11:59:13 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : thanks for taking notes :D
11:59:15 From Carson Farmer to Everyone : Thanks to Boris for kicking this all off!
11:59:35 From Sid Sanyal to Everyone : I can help here from PL side
11:59:41 From CAKE (Jimmy Lee) to Everyone : Thanks everyone!
11:59:50 From Discordian  to Everyone : Nice to meet you all!
12:00:18 From Mahendra Hirani to Everyone : Thanks all, useful info
12:00:28 From Boris Mann to Everyone : Link to Luma community: https://lu.ma/community/com-X99ybCd2GtzFPTB
12:00:35 From Boris Mann to Everyone : Consider that a “lobby” and calendar space
12:01:44 From Michael Burns to Everyone : https://badbits.dwebops.pub/
12:01:45 From Dietrich Ayala to Everyone : have to depart. best meeting ever. thanks everyone!
12:01:51 From Michael Burns to Everyone : https://badbits.dwebops.pub/denylist.json

```








