# IPFS Operators - IPFS Cluster

July 14th, 2021

* Luma event: https://lu.ma/d9rz4tnf
* Video https://vimeo.com/575453260

_Note: extremely raw notes from @bmann_

Ansible automation

https://github.com/hsanjuan/ansible-ipfs-cluster

CI 

Slackbot

ipfs cluster follow

https://cluster.ipfs.io/documentation/roadmap/

## Val / 3box

Topology?

Running multiple clusters -- single ipfs daemon

scaling data / adding redundancy

Want to pin on more than one node

Want that to happen -- don't want to wait for API call to come back

Want to be tracked in the background -- is it pinning? finished pinning? what node?

Multiple IPFS daemons to a single IPFS cluster?

cluster is its own set of cluster-peers -- cluster-peer next to each go-ipfs

More cluster-peers to the 

## Ignacio / Textile

Correct operation

Not totally safe to run -- garbage collection in the cluster, while adding data and pinning

Disable GC -- take out a node -- do GC -- and then put it back in?

Only run GC -- when not adding to that cluster-peer, adding to other peers

If you add to cluster -- will do all the stuff that IPFS usually does, does it in the cluster-peer

Block puts on the IPFS daemon

You can send block puts to multiple IPFS daemons

DAG Sharding -- among several IPFS daemons, rather than a single DAG that is too big -- can't do that


## Boris? Any Operators Running

Textile -- run it in Kubernetes

Fleek maybe running it?

## Matt

Pinata
* running it in regions of the world
* postgres DB tracking pins
* pins we have? 10s of Millions

NFT storage cluster -- few million pins

pin ls -- main issue

List of pins 800MB -- operation of listing 2M pins

## LevelDB

Badger growing large

Option to using LevelDB

Also GC to Badger back end -- reduced by 100 the amount of storage using

Filecoin using BadgerDS

## Val

Cross region replication

Europe, SF, in Asia? Singapore

storing, providing, DHT operations

RAID for disks

The other peers will also have this badger

## Matt

As operators scale out horizontally and vertically

Are there any plans with cluster to utilize load balancing requests -- proxy to the nodes in the cluster?

Or is traffic resolution at ipfs node layer?

Put Nginx in front of cluster APIs -- pin requests are distributed across cluster peers

ipfs daemon acting as gateway -- load balancing in front? DNS or whatever

max pinset you would recommend for cluster?

We know from lotus, from filecoin -- many many millions of keys

Open question -- how many pins can an IPFS daemon store?

Upper limit of pins in a single daemon limited by IPFS -- across cluster, that will be many more

## Hector

reach out for advice

whether it makes sense to tweak config

NFT storage -- need to ingest 1M pins -- easy thing to fix with batching

Good example, once issues are brought up, very actionable solution

## Val

Public testnet / 

Create data they want

Certain clients are allowed to write -- 

Ceramic nodes can ingest -- streams of data

## Hector

Include IPFS in cluster

Don't unpin

ipfs "light" -- worth it

multi-region support

multiple clusters

run a single cluster -- define the allocation for content, manually

When pin, manually say "peer1, peer2, peer3"

Or separate clusters, what is your plan on top to coordinate

Cross organization pinning

Jarrod Eyler

Aug 3rd --> suggestions

Sentinel -- chain analysis, monitoring

SQL database --> Filecoin

---

Estuary

Filecoin / IPFS -- Postgres management

Into the ecosystem specifically
